# The Phandolin Four Saga

## Prologue: The Mysterious Tale of Karnon Creed

Far to the East, across the Sea of Fallen Stars, beyond the Forest of Lethyr and the Dragonjaw Mountains, high atop the vast plateus of Thay, sits the Thaymount, seat of power to the Red Wizards and the Council of the Eight Zulkirs, the magocratic beauracracy that has ruled the Thayan people with absolute power for thousands of years. In the Thayan spciety, with the exception of the Zulkirs, Red Wizards, and some select Malan bureaucrats, the people of Thay live their lives as impoverished and destitute slaves. The creed of the Thayan people reflects this harsh life: "undeath is the preferred state of being for it is full of boundless possibilities and immeasurable power". Their society embraces the primal nature of combat, celebrating and elevating those who thrive within the deadly gladitorial matches that punctuate the otherwise miserable cycle of labor and austerity that defines Thayan exsitence.

It was into this society that Karnon was born. He was not a child of love, or even passion, simply the calculated result of an experiment being conducted by the Red Wizard Stalos Duldax on behalf of his Lich Master, Szass Tam. Stalos sought to breed a gladiator from the stock of Thay's finest warriors and fighters, a melting pot of every race and creature possible on the world of Toril. Millenium of a healthy slave trade had furnished Duldax with every specimen he could possible desire, and on a great many he conducted his cruel experiments and genetic manipulations.

Duldax had carefully selected a Neth female, captured in the Farsea Marshes of the Eastern Heartlands, to the West of the Stormhorns in Cormyr. Little did Duldax know he had selected a descendant of Thausimbel Thardresk, remembered as the greatest King of Anauria, whose human lienage carried trace elements of elven blood within, elven blood that enabled Thausimbel to live 366 years. The only known child of King Thardresk was his daughter Shaddara the Fair, considered the greatest Queen of Anauria during her time as well.

For Karnon's biological father, Duldax used the greatest and most powerful of the current breed of Thayan gladiators, hulking humanoid brutes descended from the ancient lineage of Minotaurs who had been magically manipulated by the Zulkirs to become the most impressive and deadly of predatory warriors imaginable. Unbeknownst to the pompous wizard, a secret lurked within the bloodline of his primal adonis as well. In the days before the Spellplague had struck the lands of Toril, buried deep within the jungles of Chult and protected by the God Ubtao himself, was the shining jewel of civilization - the great city of Mezro. Myths spoke of a great champion of Omu, a minotaur from the deep marshes of named Karagos. The line of Karagos carried within it certain properties, one of which was a sensitivity to wild magic.

And so, ignorant to danger of his own machinations, Stalos watched with disaffected interest as Karnon was conceived in the most involuntary fashion, oblivious to the chemical reaction taking place before his very eyes. The dormant remnants of the Fae energy in his mother's blood reacted to the wild magic response from his father, transmuting the in vitro Karnon into something even the likes of Duldax had never encountered. Karnon's natal growth was brutal on his mother's physiology as she was not equipped to gestate a child of such bestial proportions. Eventually it became clear that she could not survive child birth, so Duldax waited until the child was viable and surgically removed the pre-natal Karnon from his mother's womb, leaving her dead body behind like discarded waste as he focused on his new experiment.

Duldax was fascinated by the Tiefling baby he pulled from the dying Neth female, realizing that he could potentially exploit the infernal heritage latent within the creature to enhance the lethal array of capabilities he already had planned for it. The Tiefling child grew quickly, though Duldax ensured that it was never allowed to learn to read or write, remaining uneducated and obedient to him. Duldax rteated Karnon like a prized pet, training him in every form of combat and use of weaponry, beginning to lay the foundations of how to use his horns in battle as he groomed the young Tiefling for the day he would open the slightest crack onto the world of magic, hoping the beast-child would grasp enough of the basic concepts to make use of them in the arena.

The day came for the adolescent Karnon to learn his first lesson in attempting to access the Weave. In order to avoid any spying eyes, and because he did not want to be held accountable for any accidents, Duldax took the child to the far Eastern edges of the Thayan plateuas, to the vistas overlooking Lake Thaylambar and the SUnrise Mountains before the great stretcvhes of the Endless Wastes begin. It was here that Duldax inadvertently unlocked the powerful chemistry trapped within Karnon's genetics. Assuming the child incapable of accomplishing any task initially amd wanting to start right away with combat magic, Duldax showed the apprehensive Karnon the spell for Thunderwave. Karnon watched as Duldax reached into the Weave and manipulated reality to prepare the casting of the spell, his eyes able to track the magic as if it were drawn in trails of glowing light, his mind absorbing every nuance instinctively, without effort.

The pompous wizard stood before the child, and began to summon forth a small spark of witch bolt to strike the child beast with, one of Duldax's favorite methods of enforcing compliance form the your Karnon. Karnon had been watching Duldax prepare this magic as well, already deeply familiar with its summoning from his many tortured sessions of punishment at Duldax's cruel hands. As the petulant wizard prepared to strike Karnon with the painful blast, Karnon intuitively combined the weave of the WItch Bolt with that of the Thunderwave, completing his weave before the startled Duldax could even raise his hand to cast his prepared spell. The combination of magics created an electrified blast of compressed air and pressure that shot outward from Karnon in all directions for 100 feet, raising a massive plume of dust as rocks and small scrub were blasted into the distance.

Unpreparted for this, Duldax took the brute force of Karnon's electrified attack directly, the power of the blast was enough to crush his skeleton within his flesh, the charge in the air melting his skin into an oozing scab of blood and bone as his mangled carcass hurled over the edge of the plateau and out into the waiting darkness of the lake waters below. The humanoid cyst of burnt flesh burst open on impact, shining fragments of white bone briefly appearing amidst a maroon haze before sinking rapidly away into the depths. A small frenzy of activity busied the water where the wizard had hit, reptilian scales glinting amidst the roiling surface before settling back to serene calm.

Karnon, scared and alone, but free for the first time, did not look back. He made his way further East from the edge of Thay, afraid to cross back over the land of the Zulkirs and risk being recaptured. Instead, he headed towards the Sunrise Mountains, finding a tributary of the Clearlfow River that cut through the towering rocks, and finally making his way into the Endless Wastes. Following the stream he made his way too the forest surrounding the Lake of Mists, where he finally collapsed from exhaustion. For several weeks he survived in the wilds, catching and eating small game and surviving until one day he woke to find a strange dwarf in furs sitting across from him, watching him sleep.

Karnon learned that this dwarf was named Baerdar Bravereach, and he was a Druid of the Wild who cared for the lands surrounding the Lakes of Mists, along with his mentor, the great Druid Valin Orov. EVentually Karon learned that Baerdar remained in the forest alone because he was also a were-bear, but his Druidic abilities and his personality made it such that he was a non-threat to anyone but the enemies of nature.

Under the tutelage of Baerdar and the helpful eye of Orov, Karnon became a talented Druid in a short time. Even the warrior Evari Ruyost had to admit tat she had rarely met such a skilled warrior with such a broad knowledge of weaponry. In druidcraft, Karnon excelled as well and became known forhis tracking abilities, even among other druids. Eventually, it became time for Karnon to leave the Lake of Mists and find a territory of his own to protect.

Keeping with his original instincts, Karnon headed further East to the shores of the Great Ice Sea, near the city of Winterkeep, where he began what would be a many year pilgramage across Faerun to learn all he could about its mysteries and help to heal it in every way he could. Eventually he journeyed North toward the barren tundras south of the Endless Ice Sea before heading West along the Reghed Glacier to the Sea of Moving Ice. From there Karnon turned South, finding his way to the along the Spine of the World until he reached the Icepeak Mountain. It was here, during an extended stay to observe the celestial bodies during a very rare configuration, that Karnon found a ship wrecked and feral Tiefling named Morthos.

Karnon revived the nearly dead youth, and after nursing him to health, the two became close friends. Morthos, never having had a family or known anything other than exploitation and abuse, found a father in Karnon. In Morthos, Karnon found the rare occurrence of another Tiefling who held no inherent animosity for his kind or the world around him, due mostly to his horrid and ignorant upbringing. Karnon understood all too well the world as it appeared to Morthos, amnd taught him everything he knew about languages and nature and society. The two Tieflings would practice dueling day and night, when they were not communing with nature. Eventually Morthos chose to take Karnon's honor name of Creed as his own.

One day, Morthos grew old enough to want want to see more of the world. Karnon had not yet been given the whiper to move on by the plants, so instead he helped Morthos prepare himself, gave him his best round of fatherly advice, and watched as his surrogate son went out into the wide, wonderful, wrathful world to find his own way.

However, word spread fast through the Druidic circles, and the whipsers of a darkness growing stronger in the forgotten parts of Toril began to grow into more than just whispers. The rumors of dark magic and terrible rituals being committed in the name of long dead and better forgotten deitiesbegan to reach Karnon's ears. As the rumors became occurrences, Karnon decided it was time to investigate, but before long he found evidence that the denizen's of evil were looking for a very specific individual, one of Tiefling descent, and specifically with a mixture of certain bloodlines both of which were thought to be nearly extinct on Faerun.

The ends for which this Tiefling was wanted made his skin crawl and the bile in his throat grow hot. It was abhorrent, an abomination that was being cultivated, an abomination housed in the unwitting vessel, but the knowledge that made his blood run cold and pumped him full of fear was that these forces knew that their target, the Tiefling sacrifice at the heart of their ambitions, went by the name of Creed and had been sighted operating in the Neverwinter region near Phandelver. It was noted that the Tiefling had a purple hue to its fur and jet black eyes. Karnon knew exactly who they were looking for and he had to find Morthos first.

...Thus did Karnon journey to Neverwinter and join the Phandolin Four to search for the missing Morthos Creed.
